### The need for Gauge field theories


(Written:- July, 2024). 



[The Need for Gauge Field Theories](https://soumyadip1995.github.io/images/writeups/The_need_for_Gauge_Field_Theories.pdf)

## **Introduction**

Let's begin by trying to understand the necessity of studying a field
theory approach to quantum mechanics and as the title suggests why we
need gauge field theories. We will start off by understanding how gauge
theory was formalized, invariance and symmetry and from there we will
work our way up to how we can use gauge theory to construct strong and
weak interactions (the strong force and the weak force). One thing that
needs to be considered while studying field theories , we are trying to
understand processes that occur at very small i.e. (quantum-mechanical)
scales and very large (relativistic) energies. One might ask why we must
study the quantization of fields. Just like the classical formalism
approach,~ why can't we just quantize relativistic particles the way we
quantized non relativistic particles? . The answer to that question is
simple. When we try to quantize relativistic particles at high energies
and shorter distances, the wave equation breaks down. In other words,
the Schrodinger equation works for a free particle , but when you try to
add relativity to it, it breaks down. We also run into other problems
like negative energy solutions, a disorder in first and second order
derivatives, negative probability densities etc.~ Therefore, a 
totally new framework is needed to deal with particles (fixed number of particles
or otherwise) at relativistic levels. This is how quantum field theory
was formalized and As we have been hearing since high school, particles
are just field excitations acting as operators on a 2D Hilbert space. I
am assuming that you as the reader are familiar with concepts like
principle of least action, four vectors, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian
formalism. If not, check out any MIT OCW playlist. 

For the full write-up, download the pdf above.
