## Paper:- Global Symmetry Breaking:- A Perspective on Symmetry Inconsistencies . [[HTML]](https://soumyadip1995.github.io/images/writeups/Gsym1.html)

Published:- August 2025

Download the pdf  [here](https://soumyadip1995.github.io/images/writeups/Gsym1.pdf)

- doi:- {url = "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16814396"}
- Inspire HE-ph :- {url =  "https://inspirehep.net/literature/2960119"}


### Abstract

Global Symmetries are inconsistent with Quantum Gravity. Most global symmetries are broken/gauged away at lower energies . These kind of symmetries, even though are derived well out of Quantum Field Theories and General Relativity, it undergoes spontaneous symmetry breaking at low energy levels and remain lacking at unification. 
Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking(SSB) gives rise to Goldstone modes which signals the presence of 
massless excitations. A great example of SSB is the Higgs Field. 
The problem has been approached from a few different perspectives- namely -
global symmetries on the string worldsheet, the consequences of symmetry breaking that
happens on a conserved Noether's charge and how divergences occur when the vacuum state does not remain 
invariant and finally a topological perspective to how gauge symmetry is broken and how it leads to the
rise of both broken and unbroken generators and mass terms.

Major focus has been devoted towards understanding how a non-triviality approach in the 
context of conserved Noether current as well as a Holonomy group can give us deep insight on 
how divergences lead to inconsistencies(this is very apparent in case of Black Holes). 
It also provides information as to how compactification of higher dimensional gauge group 
leads to the breakdown of gauge symmetry.

Download the full pdf from above. 

Citation:- 
```
Cite:- @misc{soumyadip_nandi_2025_16814396,
  author       = {Soumyadip Nandi},
  title        = {Global Symmetry Breaking:- A perspective on
                   Symmetry Inconsistencies
                  },
  month        = aug,
  year         = 2025,
  publisher    = {Zenodo},
  doi          = {10.5281/zenodo.16814396},
  url          = {https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16814396},
}
```


