## Paper:- Topological Operators in Quantum Gravity:- A Treatment within Effective Field Theory Consistency

Download the pdf [here](https://soumyadip1995.github.io/images/writeups/QG%20sym.pdf)


Published:-  October 2025

- [Preprint](https://zenodo.org/records/17253407)

- [Inspire HE -ph](https://inspirehep.net/literature/3050484)




###  Abstract

Significant progress has been made in recent years on generalized global symmetries . 
In this paper, we provide a detailed and comprehensive discussion on topological operators , generalized global symmetries ,
higher -form symmetries with a concrete example using Maxwell's $4D$
theory. We revisit the problem from the perspective of generalized and higher-form symmetries, focusing on the fate of their associated topological 
operators when they are embedded in gravity. Topological defects have been categorized as solitonic effects in a field profile with appropriate 
 
regularization to derive a complete effective action for non-trivial Effective Field Theories(EFTs), which includes gravity.
While studying topological operators, it is essential to take into consideration a perturbative regime within which EFTs can be constructed and 
topological invariance can also be preserved. Considering a $d$ dimensional EFT that is weakly coupled to Einstein gravity, we continue our investigation into the species scale.
A lagrangian that includes the classical gravitation action coupled with matter fields has also been formalised. Taking into consideration the
issues that occur with constructing consistent theories of Quantum Gravity in large moduli spaces , within the Planck scale, the paper briefly touches upon
Swampland and Swampland Distance Conjecture(SDC)in order to analyse the nature of Goldstone sectors in large field spaces. Finally, we show how missing EFT 
degrees of freedom can be used to recover topological operators. For both dynamical/non-dynamical charges, we study symmetry-violations 
and the preservation of topological invariance at larger masses for heavier fields. A suppression factor has also been introduced to mitigate 
deviations at finite masses.

Download the full pdf from above

## Citation

Cite the above work


```
@misc{nandi_2025_17253407,
  author       = {Nandi, Soumyadip},
  title        = {Topological Operators in Quantum Gravity:- A
                   Treatment within Effective Field Theory
                   Consistency
                  },
  month        = oct,
  year         = 2025,
  publisher    = {Zenodo},
  doi          = {10.5281/zenodo.17253407},
  url          = {https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17253407},
}

```




